OPEN VTS MOBILE — UI, LANGUAGE AND OPERATIONS REVISION
5 October 2026

This is the complete revised mobile source, including the previous API/MFA/role
upgrade. It is source code, not an APK/AAB/IPA. The web/backend/listener are not
modified by this mobile delivery.

INPUTS
Previously delivered mobile: openvts-application-master(2).zip
SHA-256: 187c0319d43f08bb8e32f7493238f53aeeaa8edfb628713fc0a5b13e4fbc6463
Reference web/backend: openVTS-main(20261002-095331).zip
SHA-256: eeb238f6c0f1b3f6ca9e9a98746e0b48972e4e193e4303d3d1390aea7a7a6083
Revision patch baseline commit: 0f8bb7b7446ca9629117d00135e180411c3c0b82

IMPLEMENTED
- Original launcher icon design and layout restored; permission filtering kept.
- Header order: Language, theme, notifications, profile. Language persists and
  switches immediately. Arabic RTL is supported.
- English, Arabic, Spanish, French, Hindi and Portuguese: 2,715 matching message
  keys per catalog. Forms, selectors, dialogs, validation, feedback and display
  dates use the chosen language. API identifiers, password bytes, user content,
  backend messages and wire-format dates remain unchanged.
- Security is a Settings tab for all six roles. Legacy Security links redirect
  there. Team personal Settings use Team APIs through a dedicated controller.
- Operations/Landmarks share route creation: POI, geofence, map and coordinates;
  stop editing/reordering, via points and round trips; actual road geometry,
  distance and duration; current route POST/PATCH payloads. Invalid/unavailable
  road results do not save a fabricated straight-line path.
- Stop order optimization retains fixed endpoints. It uses geographic distance
  (exact up to 12 stops, bounded heuristic above that), followed by road routing;
  it is not a global road-time optimization guarantee.
- Saved routes return to retained trip drafts. Planning supports eligibility,
  account timezones, schedule variants, recurring versions, skip dates and
  warnings. Calendar drilldown, event acknowledgment, proofs and unsaved-change
  protection were reviewed and improved.
- Shared buttons, inputs, dropdown sheets, dialogs, tabs, calendars and save
  bars have consistent themes, accessible targets and narrow-screen/large-text
  handling. Calendar cache isolation follows account and permission scope.
- Prior MFA, six role logins, dynamic permissions, Admin Transactions and Driver
  workflows remain included. Admin Roles and the requested web-only pages remain
  excluded. No in-app checkout is added.

See docs/MOBILE_UX_REVISION_2026-10-05.md for behavior, maintenance guidance and
rendered previews; docs/MOBILE_UPGRADE_2026-10-05.md records the earlier API and
page-by-page review.

FINAL AUTOMATED VERIFICATION
Environment: Flutter 3.47.6 / Dart 3.13.5, Linux.
Commands used CI=true and FLUTTER_SUPPRESS_ANALYTICS=true.
- dart analyze --format machine lib test tool: passed; 0 errors, 0 warnings,
  0 informational diagnostics.
- flutter --no-version-check test --no-pub --reporter expanded: 2,183 tests
  passed, zero failures.
- flutter --no-version-check build web --release --no-pub: passed (JavaScript
  release compiler check; not evidence of native or WebAssembly readiness).
- Localization contract: passed; 4,520 static calls, 26 reviewed dynamic calls,
  2,687 registered source messages. Catalog/placeholder and six-locale validation
  coverage are included in the full test suite.
- git diff --check: passed.
- Rendered launcher/calendar previews inspected in light/dark and narrow sizes.
  Widget tests cover key changed flows, large text, keyboard-safe dropdowns,
  RTL, stale results, exact credentials and account changes with controlled data.

ARCHITECTURE CHECK
The repository-wide architecture guard still fails on existing migration debt.
The same corrected identifier-matching checker finds 87 files in the delivered
baseline and 87 in this revision, with no newly violating file paths
(305 baseline / 305 revised matching lines). No broad allowlist was introduced.
Examples include legacy Dio types in feature layers, PDF font downloads and an
older API FutureBuilder. New routing transport is under core/api; Team Settings
API actions now go through its controller. This is not a passing global gate.

DEPLOYMENT LIMITS AND REMAINING VALIDATION
No Android/iOS SDK, signing identities, physical devices or live role credentials
were available. No signed native build was produced. Tests use controlled
transports and do not prove production end-to-end behavior. Validate on staging:
six real roles, MFA/recovery, permission revocation, account/server switching,
real routing, recurring scheduling/timezones, private files, driver transitions,
telemetry/sockets and native notifications.

The default OSRM routing service matches the web. Configure your intended
compatible production provider with --dart-define=OSRM_BASE_URL=https://your-host.
Provider availability/capacity affects route calculation; failure preserves the
draft. The road provider is not sent backend credentials.

Driver in-app notifications are implemented. Native driver FCM registration
remains withheld because the supplied backend token schema references User IDs
and drivers have a separate identity table; backend support is still required.
These constraints are not hidden by the successful source/compiler checks.

USING THE SOURCE ZIP
Extract openvts-application-master(2).zip, open its project folder, use the
validated SDK, run flutter pub get, then flutter run. The included non-secret
.env retains the original default server and USE_MOCK_DATA=false. Configure your
deployment using Server URL at sign-in and supply platform build/signing setup.

USING THE REVISION PATCH
The patch is an alternative to the complete source ZIP. Apply only to a CLEAN
extraction of the PREVIOUSLY DELIVERED mobile ZIP with the input SHA-256 above,
not to the original legacy mobile source and not to this newly revised ZIP:
  git apply --check /absolute/path/OpenVTS_Mobile_UI_Operations_Revision_2026-10-05.patch
  git apply /absolute/path/OpenVTS_Mobile_UI_Operations_Revision_2026-10-05.patch

The accompanying delivery verification adds final ZIP/patch SHA-256 values,
archive integrity and exact patch reconstruction results after packaging.
